## P1
Q)
Design and describe an application-level protocol to be used between an automatic teller machine and a bank's centralized computer.
Your protocol should allow a user's card and password to be verified, the account balance(which is maintained at the centralized computer) to be queried, and an account withdrawal to be made(that is, money disbursed to the user).
Your protocol entities should be able to handle the all-too-common case in which there is not enough money in the account to cover the withdrawal.
Specify your protocol by listing the messages exchanged and the action taken by the automatic teller machine or the bank's centralized computer on transmission and receipt of messages.
Sketch the operation of your protocol for the case of a simple withdrawal with no errors, using a diagram similar to that in Figure 1.2.
Explicitly state the assumption made by your protocol about the underlying end-to-end transport service.

A)
- Messages from ATM machine to server
	- HELLO \<userid\>
		- Let server know that ther is a card in the ATM machine
		- ATM card transmits user ID to server
	- PASSWD \<passwd\>
		- User enters PIN, which is sent to server
	- BALANCE
		- User requests balance
	- WITHDRAWL \<amount\>
		- User asks to withdraw money
	- BYE
		- User all done
- Messages from server to ATM machine
	- PASSWD
		- Ask user for PIN
	- OK
		- Last requested operation (PASSWD, WITHDRAWL) OK
	- ERR
		- Last requested operation (PASSWD, WITHDRAWL) in ERROR
	- AMOUNT \<amount\>
		- Sent in response to BALANCE request
	- BYE
		- User done, display welcome screen at ATM

- Correct operation
	1) client: HELLO \<userid\>
	2) server checks if userid is valid
	3) server: PASSWD
	4) client : PASSWD \<passwd\>
	5) server checks password
	6) server : OK
	7) client : BALANCE
	8) server : AMOUNT \<amount\>
	9) client : WITHDRAWL \<amount\>
	10) server checks if enough $ to cover withdrawl
	11) server : OK
	12) ATM dispenses $
	13) client : BYE
	14) server : BYE

- Not enough money situation
	1) client : HELLO \<userid\>
	2) server checks if userid is valid
	3) server : PASSWD
	4) client : PASSWD \<passwd\>
	5) server checks password
	6) server : OK
	7) client : BALANCE
	8) server : AMOUNT \<amount\>
	9) client : WITHDRAWL \<amount\>
	10) server checks if enough $ to cover withdrawl
	11) server : ERR
	12) client : BYE
	13) server : BYE

## P2
Q)
Let's now consider the general case of sending one packet from source to destination over a path consisting of `N` links each of rate `R`(thus, there are `N - 1` routes between source and destination).
End-to-End delay is `N * L / R`.
Generalize this formula for sending `P` such packets back-to-back over the `N` links.

A)
At time `N * L / R` the first packet has reached the destination, the second packet is stored in the last router, the third packet is stored in the next-to-last router, etc. At time `(N * L / R) + L / R`, the second packet has reached the destination, the third packet is stored in the last router, etc.
Continuing with this logic, we see that at time<br>`(N * L / R) + ((P - 1) * L / R) = (N + P - 1) * (L / R)`
all packets have reached the destination.

## P3
Q)
Consider an application that transmits data at a steady rate(for example, the sender generates an `N`-bit unit of data every `k` time units, where `k`is small and fixed).
Also, when such and application starts, it will continue running for a relatively long period of time.
Answer the following questions, briefly justifying your answer.
1) Would a packet-switched network or a circuit-switched network be more appropriate for this application?<br>Why?
2) Suppose that a packet-switched network is used and the only traffic in this network comes from such applications as described above.<br>Furthermore, assume that the sum of the application data rates is less than the capacities of each and every link.<br>Is some form of congestion control needed?<br>Why?

A)
1) A circuit-switched network would be well suited to the application, because the application involves long sessions with predictable smooth bandwidth requirements.<br>Since the transmission rate is known and not bursty, bandwidth can be reserved for each application session without significant waste.<br>In addition, the overhead costs of setting up and tearing down connections are amortized over the lengthy duration of a typical application session.
2) In the worst case, all the applications simultaneously transmit over one or more network links.<br>However, since each link has sufficient bandwidth to handle the sum of all of the applications' data rates, no congestion(very little queuing) will occur.<br>Given such generous link capacities, the network does not need congestion control mechanisms.

## P4
Q)
Consider the circuit-switched network in Figure 1.13.
Recall that there are 4 circuits on each link.
Label the four switches A, B, C and D, going in the clockwise direction.
1) What is the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be in progress at any one time in this network?
2) Suppose that all connections are between switches A and C.<br>What is the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be in progress?
3) Suppose we want to make four connections between switches A and C, and another four connections between switches B and D.<br>Can we route these calls through the four links to accommodate all eight connections?

A)
1) Between the switch in the upper left and the switch in the upper right we can have 4 connections.<br>Similarly we can have four connections between each of the 3 other pairs of adjacent switches.<br>Thus, this network can support up to 16 connections.
2) We can 4 connections passing through the switch in the upper-right-hand corner and another 4 connections passing through the switch in the lower-left-hand corner, giving a total of 8 connections.
3) Yes.<br>For the connections between A and C, we route two connections through B and two connections through D.<br>For the connections between B and D, we route two connections through A and two connections through C.<br>In this manner, there are at most 4 connections passing through any link.

## P5
Q)
Review the car-caravan analogy in Section 1.4.
Assume a propagation speed of 100 km/hour.
1) Suppose the caravan travels 150 km, beginning in front of one tollbooth, passing through a second tollbooth, and finishing just after a third tollbooth.<br>What is the end-to-end delay?
2) Repeat (1), now assuming that there are eight cars in the caravan instead of ten.

A)
Tollbooths are 75 km apart, and the cars propagate at 100 km/hour.
A tollbooth services a car at a rate of one car every 12 seconds.
1) There are then cars.<br>It takes 120 seconds for the first tollbooth to service the 10 cars.<br>Each of these cars has a propagation delay of 45 minutes before arriving at the second tollbooth.<br>Thus, all the cars are lined up before the second tollbooth after 47 minutes.<br>The whole process repeats itself for traveling between the second and third tollbooths.<br>It also takes 2 minutes for the third tollbooth to service the 10 cars.<br>Thus the total delay is 96 minutes.
2) Delay between tollbooths is `8 * 12` seconds plus 45 minutes, i.e., 46 minutes and 36 seconds.<br>The total delay is twice this amount plus `8 * 12` seconds, i.e., 94 minutes and 48 seconds.

##  P6
Q)
This elementary problem begins to explore propagation delay and transmission delay, two central concepts in data networking.
Consider two hosts, A and B, connected by a single link of rate `R` bps.
Suppose that the two hosts are separated by `m` meters, and suppose the propagation speed along the link is `s` meters/sec.
Host A is to send a packet of size `L` bits to Host B.
1) Express the propagation delay, `d_prop`, in terms of `m` and `s`.
2) Determine the transmission time of the packet, `d_trans`, in terms of `L` and `R`.
3) Ignoring processing and queuing delays, obtain an expression for the end-to-end delay.
4) Suppose Host A begins to transmit the packet at time `t = 0`. At time `t = d_trans`, where is the last bit of the packet?
5) Suppose `d_prop` is greater than `d_trans`.<br>At time `t = d_trans`, where is the first bit of the packet?
6) Suppose `d_prop` is less than `d_trans`.<br>At time `t = d_trans`, where is the first bit of the packet?
7) Suppose `s = 2.5 * 10 ^ 8`, `L = 120 bits`, and `R = 56 kbps`.<br>Find the distance `m` so that `d_prop` equals `d_trans`.

A)
1) `d_prop = m / s seconds`
2) `d_trans = L / R seconds`
3) `d_end_to_end = (m / s) + (L / R) seconds
4) The bit is just leaving Host A
5) The first bit is in the link and has not reached Host B
6) The first bit has reached Host B
7) `m = s * L / R = 536 km`

## P7
Q)
In this problem, we consider sending real-time voice from Host A to Host B over a packet-switched network(VoIP).
Host A converts analog voice to a digital 64 kbps it stream on the fly.
Host A then groups the bits into 56-byte packets.
There is one link between Hosts A and B; its transmission rate is 2 Mbps and its propagation delay is 10 msec.
As soon as Host A gathers a packet, it sends it to Host B.
As soon as Host B receives an entire packet, it converts the packet's bits to an analog signal.
How much time elapses from the time a bit is created(from the original analog signal at Host A) until the bit is decoded(as part of the analog signal at Host B)?

A)
Consider the first bit in a packet.
Before this bit can be transmitted, all of the bits in the packet must be generated.
This requires `56 * 8 / (64 * 10 ^ 3) sec = 7 msec`.
The time required to transmit the packet is
	`56 * 8 / (2 * 10 ^ 6) sec = 224 microsec`.
Propagation delay is 10 msec.
The delay until decoding is
	`7 msec + 224 microsec + 10 msec = 17.224 msec`.

## P8
Q)
Suppose users share a 3 Mbps link.
Also suppose each user requires 150 kbps when transmitting, but each user transmits only 10 percent of the time.
1) When circuit switching is used, how many users can be supported?
2) For the remainder of this problem, suppose packet switching is used.<br>Find the probability that a given user is transmitting.
3) Suppose there are 120 users.<br>Find the probability that at any given time, exactly `n` users are transmitting simultaneously.
4) Find the probability that there are 21 or more users transmitting simultaneously.

A)
1) 20 users can be supported
2) p = 0.1
3) `(120 C n) * p ^ n * (1 - p) ^ (120 - n)`
4) `1 - Sigma(n=0,20){(120 C n) * p ^ n * (1 - p) ^ (120 - n)}`
	- It approximates 0.003

## P9
Q)
Consider the discussion in Section 1.3 of packet switching versus circuit switching in which an example is provided with a 1 Mbps link.
Users are generating data at a rate of 100 kbps when busy, but are busy generating data only with probability `p = 0.1`.
Suppose that the 1 Mbps link is replaced by a 1 Gbps link.
1) What is `N`, the maximum number of users that can be supported simultaneously under circuit switching?
2) Now consider packet switching and a user population of `M` users.<br>Give a formula(in terms of `p, M, N`) for the probability that more than `N` users are sending data.

A)
1) 10,000
2) `Sigma(n=N+1,M){(M C n) * p ^ n * (1 - p) ^ (M - n)`

## P10
Q)
Consider a packet of length `L` which begins at end system A and travels over three links to a destination end system.
These three links are connected by two packet switches.
Let `d_i, s_i`, and `R_i` denote the length, propagation speed, and the transmission rate of link `i`, for `i = 1, 2, 3`.
The packet switch delays each packet by `d_proc`.
Assuming no queuing delays, in terms of
`d_i, s_i, R_i, (i = 1, 2, 3)` and `L`,
what is the total end-to-end delay for the packet?
Suppose now the packet is 1,500 bytes, the propagation speed on all three links is `2.5 * 10 ^ 8` m/s, the transmission rates of all three links are 2 Mbps, the packet switch processing delay is 3 msec, the length of the first link is 5,000 km, the length of the second link is 4,000 km, and the length of the last link is 1,000 km.
For these values, what is the end-to-end delay?

A)
The first end system requires `L / R_1` to transmit the packet onto the first link;
the packet propagates over the first link in `d_1 / s_1`;
the packet switch adds a processing delay of `d_proc`;
after receiving the entire packet, the packet switch connecting the first and the second link requires `L / R_2` to transmit the packet onto the second link;
the packet propagates over the second link in `d_2 / s_2`.
Similarly, we can find the delay caused by the second switch and the third link : `L / R_3`, `d_proc`, and `d_3 / s_3`.
Adding these five delays gives
`d_end_end = L / R_1 + L / R_2 + L / R_3 + d_1 / s_1 + d_2 / s_2 + d_3 / s_3 + d_proc + d_proc`.
To answer the second question, we simply plug the values into the equation to get 64 msec.

## P11
Q)
In the above problem, suppose `R1 = R2 = R3 = R` and `d_proc = 0`.
Further suppose the packet switch does not store-and-forward packets but instead immediately transmits each bit it receives before waiting for the entire packet to arrive.
What is the end-to-end delay?

A)
Because bits are immediately transmitted, the packet switch does not introduce any delay; in particular, it does not introduce a transmission delay.
Thus, `d_end_end = L / R + d_1 / s_1 + d_2 / s_2 + d_3 / s_3`.

## P12
Q)
A packet switch receives a packet and determines the outbound link to which the packet should be forwarded.
When the packet arrives, one other packet is halfway done being transmitted on this outbound link and four other packets are waiting to be transmitted.
Packets are transmitted in order of arrival.
Suppose all packets are 1,500 bytes and the link rate is 2 Mbps.
What is the queuing delay for the packet?
More generally, what is the queuing delay when all packets have length `L`, the transmission rate is `R`, `x` bits of the currently-being-transmitted packet have been transmitted, and `n` packets are already in the queue?

A)
The arriving packet must first wait for the link to transmit `4.5 * 1500 bytes = 6750 bytes = 54000 bits`.
Since these bits are transmitted at 2 Mbps, the queuing delay is 27 msec.
Generally, the queuing delay is `(n * L + (L - x)) / r`.

## P13
Q)
1) Suppose `N` packets arrive simultaneously to a link at which no packets are currently being transmitted or queued.<br>Each packet is of length `L` and the link has transmission rate `R`.<br>What is the average queuing delay for the `N` packets?
2) Now suppose that `N` such packets arrive to the link every `L * N / R` seconds.<br>What is the average queuing delay of a packet?

A)
1) The queuing delay is 0 for the first transmitted packet, `L / R` for the second transmitted packet, and generally, `(n - 1) * L / R` for the `n`th transmitted packet.<br>Thus, the average delay for the `N` packets is:<br>`(N - 1) * N * L / ((R * 2) * N) = (N - 1) * L / (2 * R)`.
2) It takes `L * N / R` seconds to transmit the `N` packets.<br>Thus, the buffer is empty when a each batch of `N` packets arrive.<br>Thus, the average delay of a packet across all batches is the average delay within one batch, i.e., `(N - 1) * L / (2 * R)`.

## P14
Q)
Consider the queuing delay in a router buffer.
Let `I` denote traffic intensity; that is, `I = L * a / R`.
Suppose that the queuing delay takes the form `I * L / (R * (1 - I))` for `I < 1`.
1) Provide a formula for the total delay, that is, the queuing delay plus the transmission delay.
2) Plot the total delay as a function of `L / R`.

A)
	1) The transmission delay is `L / R`.<br>The total delay is `I * L / (R * (1 - I)) + L / R = (L / R) * (1 / (1 - I))`.
	2) Let `x = L / R`.<br>Total delay = `x / (1 - a * x)`.<br>For `x = 0`, the total delay = 0; as we increase `x`, total delay increases, approaching infinity as `x` approaches `1 / a`.

## P15
Q)
Let `a` denote the rate of packets arriving at a link in packets / sec, and let `u` denote the link's transmission rate in packets / sec.
Based on the formula for the total delay(i.e., the queuing delay plus the transmission delay) derived in the previous problem, derive a formula for the total delay in terms of `a` and `u`.

A)
`I = L * a / R` and `u = R / L`.
Total delay = `(L / R) * (1 / (1 - I)) = (1 / u) / (1 - (a * L / R))`<br>`= (1 / u) / (1 - (a / u)) = 1 / (u - a)`.

## P16
Q)
Consider a router buffer preceding an outbound link.
In this problem, you will use Little's formula, a famous formula from queuing theory.
Let `N` denote the average number of packets in the buffer plus the packet being transmitted.
Let `a` denote the rate of packets arriving at the link.
Let `d` denote the average total delay(i.e., the queuing delay plus the transmission delay) experienced by a packet.
Little's formula is `N = a * d`.
Suppose that on average, the buffer contains 10 packets, and the average packet queuing delay is 10 msec.
The link's transmission rate is 100 packets /sec.
Using Little's formula, what is the average packet arrival rate, assuming there is no packet loss?

A)
The total number of packets in the system includes those in the buffer and the packet that is being transmitted.
So, `N = 10 + 1`.
Because `N = a * d`, so `(10 + 1) = a * (queuing delay + transmission delay)`.
That is, `11 = a * (0.01 + 1 / 100) = a * 0.02`.
Thus, `a = 550 packets / sec`.

## P17
Q)
1) Generalize Equation 1.2 in Section 1.4.3 for heterogeneous processing rates, transmission rates, and propagation delays.
2) Repeat (1), but now also suppose that there is an average queuing delay of `d_queue` at each node.

A)
1) There are `Q` nodes(the source host and the `Q - 1` routers).<br>Let `d_proc_q` denote the processing delay at the `q`th node.<br>Let `R_q` be the transmission rate of the `q`th link and let `d_trans_q = L / R_q`.<br>Let `d_prop_q` be the propagation delay across the `q`th link.<br>Then `d_end_to_end = Sigma(q=1,Q){d_proc_q + d_trans_q + d_prop_q}`.
2) Let `d_queue_q` denote the average queuing delay at node `q`.<br>Then `d_end_to_end = Sigma(q=1,Q){d_proc_q + d_trans_q + d_prop_q + d_queue_q}`.

## P18
Q)
Perform a Traceroute between source and destination on the same continent at three different hours of the day.
1) Find the average and standard deviation of the round-trip delays at each of the three hours.
2) Find the number of routers in the path at each of the three hours.<br>Did the paths change during any of the hours?
3) Try to identify the number of ISP networks that the Traceroute packets pass through from source to destination.<br>Routers with similar names and/or similar IP addresses should be considered as part of the same ISP.<br>In your experiments, do the largest delays occur at the peering interfaces between adjacent ISPs?
4) Repeat the above for a source and destination on different continents.<br>Compare the intra-continent and inter-continent results.

A)
1) The average of the round-trip delays at each of the three hours is 71.18 ms, 71.38 ms and 71.55 ms, respectively.<br>The standard deviations are 0.075 ms, 0.21 ms, 0.05 ms, respectively.
2) In this example, the traceroutes have 12 routers in the path at each of the three hours.<br>No, the paths didn't change during any of the hours.
3) Traceroute packets passed through four ISP networks from source to destination.<br>Yes, in this experiment the largest delays occurred at peering interfaces between adjacent ISPs.
4) The average round-trip delays at each of the three hours are 87.09 ms, 86.35 ms, and 86.48 ms, respectively.<br>The standard deviations are 0.53 ms, 0.18 ms, 0.23 ms, respectively.<br>In this example, there are 11 routers in the path at each of the three hours.<br>No, the paths didn't change during any of the hours.<br>Traceroute packets passed three ISP networks from source to destination.<br>Yes, in this experiment the largest delays occurred at peering interfaces between adjacent ISPs.

## P19
Q)
1) Visit the site www.traceroute.org and perform traceroutes from two different cities in France to the same destination host in the United States.<br>How many links are the same in the two traceroutes?<br>Is the transatlantic link the same?
2) Repeat (1) but this time choose one city in France and another city in Germany.
3) Pick a city in the United States, and perform traceroutes to two hosts, each in a different city in China.<br>How many links are common in the two traceroutes?<br>Do the two traceroutes diverge before reaching China?

A)
1) In these traceroutes from two different cities in France to the same destination host in United States, seven links are in common including the transatlantic link.
2) In this example of traceroutes from one city in France and from another city in Germany to the same host in United States, three links are in common including the transatlantic link.
3) Five links are common in the two traceroutes.<br>The two traceroutes diverge before reaching China.

## P20
Q)
Consider the throughput example corresponding to Figure 1.20(b).
Now suppose that there are `M` client-server pairs rather than 10.
Denote `R_s`, `R_c`, and `R` for the rates of the server links, client links, and network link.
Assume all other links have abundant capacity and that there is no other traffic in the network besides the traffic generated by the `M` client-server pairs.
Derive a general expression for throughput in terms of `R_s`, `R_c`, `R`, and `M`.

A)
Throughput = min{`R_s`, `R_c`, `R / M`}

## P21
Q)
Consider Figure 1.19(b).
Now suppose that there are `M` paths between the server and the client.
No two paths share any link.
Path `k` (`k = 1, ... , M`) consists of `N` links with transmission rates `R_1_k`, `R_2_k`, ... ,`R_N_k`.
If the server can only use one path to send data to the client, what is the maximum throughput that the server can achieve?
If the server can use all `M` paths to send data, what is the maximum throughput that the server can achieve?

A)
If only use one path, the max throughput is given by :
`max{min{R_1_1, R_2_1, ... , R_N_1}, min{R_1_2, R_2_2, ... , R_N_2}, ... , min{R_1_M, R_2_M, ... , R_N_M}}`
If use all paths, the max throughput is given by :
`Sigma(k=1,M){min{R_1_k, R_2_k, ..., R_N_k}}`

## P22
Q)
Consider Figure 1.19(b).
Suppose that each link between the server and the client has a packet loss probability `p`, and the packet loss probabilities for these links are independent.
What is the probability that a packet(sent by the server) is successfully received by the receiver?
If a packet is lost in the path from the server to the client, then the server will re-transmit the packet.
On average, how many times will the server re-transmit the packet in order for the client to successfully receive the packet?

A)
Probability of successfully receiving a packet is : `(1 - p) ^ N`.
The number of transmissions needed to be performed until the packet is successfully received by the client is a geometric random variable with success probability `p_s`.
Thus, the average number of transmissions needed is given by : `1 / p_s`.
Then, the average number of re-transmissions needed is given by : `(1 / p_s) - 1`.

## P23
Q)
Consider Figure 1.19(a).
Assume that we know the bottleneck link along the path from the server to the client is the first link with rate `R_s` bits / sec.
Suppose we send a pair of packets back to back from the server to the client, and there is no other traffic on this path.
Assume each packet of size `L` bits, and both links have the same propagation delay `d_prop`.
1) What is the packet inter-arrival time at the destination?<br>That is, how much time elapses from when the last bit of the first packet arrives until the last bit of the second packet arrives?
2) Now assume that the second link is the bottleneck link(i.e., `R_c < R_s`).<br>Is it possible that the second packet queues at the input queue of the second link?<br>Explain.<br>Now suppose that the server sends the second packet `T` seconds after sending the first packet.<br>How large must `T` be to ensure no queuing before the second link?<br>Explain.

A)
1) If the bottleneck link is the first link, then packet B is queued at the first link waiting for the transmission of packet A.<br>So the packet inter-arrival time at the destination is simply `L / R_s`.
2) If the second link is the bottleneck link and both packets are sent back to back, it must be true that the second packet arrives at the input queue of the second link before the second link finishes the transmission of the first packet.<br>That is, `L / R_s + L / R_s + d_prop < L / R_s + d_prop + L / R_c`.<br>The left hand side of the above inequality represents the time needed by the second packet to arrive at the input queue of the second link(the second link has not started transmitting the second packet yet).<br>The right hand side represents the time needed by the first packet to finish its transmission onto the second link.<br>If we send the second packet `T` seconds later, we will ensure that there is no queuing delay for the second packet at the second link if we have :<br>`L / R_s + L / R_s + d_prop + T >= L / R_s + d_prop + L / R_c`<br>Thus, the minimum value of `T` is `L / R_c - L / R_s`